Tribute to Hugh Glass

Hugh Glass, (born c. 1783—died c. 1833), American frontiersman and fur trapper who became a folk hero after surviving a bear attack and then traveling hundreds of miles alone to safety.

Little is known of Glass’s life before 1823, when he signed up for a fur-trading expedition backed by William Henry Ashley. The group departed from St. Louis in March. Several months later they were attacked by Native Americans, and Glass was slightly wounded. In August he was scouting near present-day Lemmon, South Dakota, when he was attacked by a bear. Although the animal was killed—according to some accounts, by Glass himself—the incident left him badly injured. He reportedly had a broken leg, a ripped scalp, a punctured throat, and numerous gashes. Believing him mortally wounded, the expedition leaders left two men, John Fitzgerald and Jim Bridger, to stay with Glass until he died. However, several days later Fitzgerald and Bridger decided to rejoin their group. They placed Glass in a shallow grave and departed with his weapons. Shortly thereafter Glass regained enough strength to begin the arduous journey to Fort Kiowa, near present-day Chamberlain, South Dakota. Over the next two months, he traveled some 200–300 miles (322–483 km). Details of his ordeal later took on legendary proportions, making it difficult to sort fact from fiction. Claims that he was able to continue only by crawling at various points are almost certainly true, but the story that he lost consciousness on one occasion and awoke to find a grizzly bear licking clean wounds that were infested with maggots seems unlikely.

After recuperating at Fort Kiowa, Glass set out to kill Bridger and Fitzgerald for abandoning him. During his travels to locate the two men, Glass was reportedly attacked by Native Americans on two occasions. After finding Bridger, Glass forgave him because of his age; Bridger was 19 years old at the time of the incident. Accounts differ concerning Fitzgerald. Some say that Fitzgerald had joined the army and was thus safe from any retaliation by Glass. Other sources, however, claim that Glass found Fitzgerald and forgave him as well.

Glass eventually resumed trapping. In the mid-1820s he was again wounded during a clash with Native Americans; an arrowhead was reportedly shot into his back. About 1833 he was on an expedition near Fort Cass, present-day Treasure county, Montana, when he was involved in another confrontation with Indians. On that occasion, though, Glass was killed. His legend lives on through numerous articles and books as well as several films, including The Revenant (2015), in which Leonardo DiCaprio starred as Glass.
